An amateur radio licence may be used for  A. Advertising a retailer of amateur radio equipment B. Controlling a fleet of taxis C. Testing propagation between two amateurs in different countries D. Providing radio communications for a commercial fairground operator|C
F propagation is NOT affected by the A. sun. B. time of day. C. day of the week. D. frequency used.|C
Which of the following is a foundation licence holder NOT allowed to do? A. Operate a radio transmitter that the licence holder has designed themselves. B. Design and operate a radio receiver. C. Assemble and operate a transmitter designed by an intermediate licence holder D.  Assemble and operate a radio deigned by a commercial company|A
An amateur radio licence holder must, when changing the main station address, immediately notify A. the local police. B. the local council. C. the RSGB. D. Ofcom.|D
When transmitting, you must give your call sign A. When establishing contact and at least every 5 minutes B. When establishing contact and as frequently as is practicable. C. During CQ calls and at the beginning and end of the contact D. At the beginning and end of the contact.|B
A Foundation licence holder, operating under the supervision of a Full licence holder and using the Full licence holders callsign, must  A. operate subject to the restrictions of the Foundation licence. B. operate in accordance with the supervisors licence. C. ensure that any contacts are recorded in the log. D. reduce the transmitters power to 10 watts.|B
You are talking to M3ABC by amateur radio and some friends enter his room. You may also address remarks to these friends A. if they are family members. B. if M3ABC gives permission. C. if they are also licenced radio amateurs. D. but only on the calling channel.|C
Which of the following may NOT be used in an amateur radio transmission? A. A message sent in Morse code B. A message sent containing Q codes. C. A message using secret codes known only to the sender and recipient. D. A message containing data.|C
A Foundation licence holder may operate in a foreign country if A. this is within the European Union. B. operating in that countries coastal waters C. the country recognises UK amateur radio licences D. given permission by the appropriate authority of that country|D
Which part of an amateur band is not permitted within 100km of Charing Cross, London? A.  1·810-1·830MHz B.  51·00-52·00MHz C.  431·0-432·0MHz D.  438·0-440·0MHz|C
To whom do EMF restrictions apply? A.  Members of the general public. B.  Foundation licence holders. C.  Intermediate licence holders. D.  Full licence holders|A
Which of the following is a good conductor of an electric current? A. Rubber B. Plastic C. Glass D. Aluminium|D
In a circuit of resistors in series that are connected to a battery, the current flowing each resistor will A. be the same as the battery voltage. B. be different depending on the voltage of the battery. C. be different depending on the value of the resistor. D. be same in each resistor.|D
A 12V mobile transceiver consumes 10W on receive and 100W on transmit. The highest current drawn will be A. 0.83A B. 0.83Ω C. 8.3A D. 8.3Ω|C
The correct formula relating the voltage, V,  the current, I, and the resistance R is A. R = V - I B. R = V × I C. R = I / V D. R = V / I|D
The voltage across three resistors connected in series is 5 volts, 10 volts and 20 volts respectively. The total voltage across all three resistors is A. 5 volts B. 10 volts. C. 20 volts. D. 35 volts.|D
Which of the following will work normally when connected to a battery of the correct voltage regardless of battery polarity? A. Incandescent lamp B. Radio receiver C. LED lamp D. Pocket Calculator|A
What is the significant difference between AC and DC? A. Direct currents are always greater than alternating currents. B. Direct currents take a long time to change direction. C. Alternating currents are continually changing direction. D. Alternating currents have a fixed polarity|C
The frequency 50MHz is A. LF B. HF C. VHF D. UHF|C
A frequency of 100 MHz has a wavelength of A. 3 metres. B. 30 metres. C. 0.3 metres. D. 300 metres.|A
Digital signals are A. constantly changing in amplitude B. astream of finite values at a specific sampling interval. C. totally immune to interference. D. created by a Digital to Analogue converter.|B
An Analogue to Digital Converter (ADC) A. represents a digitial signal in analogue format  B. samples an analogue signal and creates a digital representation of it C. changes audio signals to RF D. is an optional component in a Software defined radio|B
A secondary battery A. cannot be  recharged. B. may be recharged. C. undergoes a chemical process that cannot be reversed. D. consists of a single cell.|B
Adding information to a radio frequency carrier is known as A. transmission. B. tuning. C. amplification. D. modulation.|D
Audio or data information is combined with  a radio frequency carrier in which stage of a transmitter? A. Microphone Amplifier. B. Modulator. C. RF Power amplifier. D. AF power amplifier.|B
When radio frequencies are mixed with audio frequencies, the new frequencies that are generated are called A. fundamentals B. harmonics C. sidebands D. carriers|C
Incorrect setting of the oscillator in a transmitter may cause A. damage to the power supply. B. distortion to the transmitted signal. C. damage to the antenna. D. transmitting on the wrong frequency.|D
If the microphone gain is set too high on a transmitter A. the antenna could be damaged. B. interference could be caused on adjacent channels. C. the supply fuse will fail D. the operator could get an electric shock from the microphone|B
The RF power amplifier A. takes the signal from the microphone and amplifies it to a suitable level B. amplifies the low power modulated radio signal to suitable level to feed the antenna C. converts the mains supply to a suitable voltage to be used by the transmitter D. ensures the transmitter is radiating on the correct frequency.|B
If the transmitters RF power amplifier output is not connected to a correctly matched antenna A. the antenna can be damaged. B. SWR will be too low. C. interference will be caused on adjacent channels. D. the transmitter can be damaged.|D
Too much audio gain is likely to cause a transmitter to A. stop working. B. Increase the SWR. C. interfere with other bands. D. interfere with adjacent frequencies.|D
Recovering the original information from a received radio signal is called A. demodulation. B. modulation. C. filtering. D. oscilating.|A
In a receiver, the demodulator A.  recovers the original information from the received signal. B. amplifies the received signal so that it can be heard through the loudspeaker. C. mixes the audio signal with the frequency from the local oscilator. D. matches the antenna to the transmitter.|A
In a Software Defined Radio, demodulation is carried our by A. a diode detector B. the RF amplified C. the local oscilator D. mathematical processes|D
A twin feeder cable A. can be burried underground to prevent interference. B. is balanced having equal and opposite signals in each wire. C. is unbalanced with one wire at ground and the other carrying the signal. D. has greater loss than a coaxial cable.|B
Loss in feeders increases with A. the modulation used B. length of the feeder cable C. lower transmit frequencies D. higher gain antennas|B
A balun is primarily used to  A. increase the power fed to the antenna B. decrease the power fed to the antenna C. connect an unbalanced feeder to a balanced antenna D. protect against damage caused by static electricity|C
A vertical half wave dipole will radiate A. equally in all horizontal directions. B. a maximum signal in a vertical direction. C. a minimum signal at right-angles to the antenna. D. a maximum signal oﬀ the ends of the antenna.|A
The gain of an antenna is measured in A. Watts. B. Volts. C. Amps. D. dB.|D
6.1W ERP is equivalent to A. 6W. B. 6W EIRP. C. 10W EIRP. D.10W.|C
For best reception of UHF or VHF signals the antennas of both receiver and transmitter should both be  A. vertical. B. horizontal. C. in the same orientation. D. in any orientation.|C
The feed point impedance of an antenna is related to A. the cable used to connect to the antenna. B. the mode of transmission. C. the output power of the transmitter. D. the dimensions of the antenna and the wavelength of the applied signal.|D
An amateur changes band of operation but does not check the antenna is still matched. This might cause A. high levels of Standing Waves in the feeder. B. distortion of the transmitted signal. C. antenna overloading. D. interference to be caused on other bands.|A
In a well designed and matched antenna system, measured SWR at the transceiver will be A. > 5 1 B. > 3 1 C. 2 1 D. < 1.5 1|D
If an antenna is being used on a frequency for which it has not been designed A. measured SWR will be very low. B. antenna matching will be required. C. interference may be caused to adjacent channels D. the antenna could be damaged.|B
A dummy load is A. a weight used to obtain the correct tension on a long wire antenna B. a screened resistor that may be connected to the transmitter output without radiating C. a suitable resistor to connect to the power supply when the transmitter is disconnected D. used instead of the microphone when using a transceiver to receive only|B
The connector shown is a A. jack plug. B. PL259. C. SO238. D. BNC.|D
Radio waves A. maintain their power as they propagate. B. normally travel in straight lines. C. always pass through the ionosphere. D. never pass through the ionosphere.|B
Propagation of VHF and UHF frequencies is normally A. decreased with sporadic E B. refracted back to earth by the troposphere. C. not much beyond the  line of sight. D. not possible beyond the ionosphere.|C
The lowest layer of the ionosphere is at a height of about A. 800km B. 700m C. 70km D. 10km|C
VHF/UHF signals A. are unaffected by buildings B. become weaker as they pass through buildings. C. become stronger at higher frequencies D. are unaffected by atmospheric conditions.|B
Snow, ice and rain have the most detrimental effect on which frequency range? A. LF B. HF C. VHF D. UHF|D
A VHF transmitting antenna should be located  A. indoors B. outdoors C. close to the transmitter so you can easily adjust it to the correct length. D. at ground level to minimise interference.|B
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) means  A. the antenna is properly matched to the transmitter. B. the avoidance of interference between electronic equipment. C. ensuring electronic equipment generates small electromagnetic fields. D. amicrophone will work correctly when connected to a transmitter.|B
A radio amateur’s transmission is LEAST likely to cause interference to A. other amateurs. B. other radio users. C. an electric drill. D. an electronic security alarm.|C
An amateur radio transmitter can cause electromagnetic interference to A. electric drills. B. vacuum cleaners. C. lawn mowers. D. electronic equipment|D
Which of the following will NOT cause interference with the operation of a radio receiver? A. A lawn mower. B. An electric drill. C. Central heating controls. D. A SWR meter.|D
Which of the following will NOT  lead to an increase in risk of causing electromagnetic interference? A. Changing from SSB to FM transmission. B. Increasing the transmit power. C. Changing from PSK to Morse code transmission. D. Increasing the microphone gain.|A
Which of the following is least likely to provide a route of entry of interference into domestic TV equipment. A. Feeder from the antenna to the transmitter. B. Electronic components inside the TV. C. Audio speaker leads. D. RF earth rod.|D
Immunity to interference from most sources can be increased by A. Fitting chokes and filters in mains or antenna leads. B. Using longer mains leads to the TV. C. Fitting a preamplifier to the TV antenna input. D. Fitting a higher rated fuse to the TV plug.|A
A dummy load is used A. to test if RF signals are being conducted out of a transmitter through its power cables. B. to test the power being sent to the headphones in a receiver C. to match an aerial to a feeder D to test the setting of the microphone gain on the transmitter.|A
EMC problems can be minimised by A. using end fed long wire antennas. B. locating antennas as close as possible to houses. C. siting antennas as high and as far away from houses as possible. D. using loft antennas.|C
An RF earth terminal of a transmitter should be connected to A. the metal pipework in the central heating system. B. the earth pin of the mains plug. C. the mains earth at the fuse box . D. a long copper rod buried in damp ground.|D
When fitting a transceiver in a vehicle, whose reasonability is it to ensure that the installation is in accordance with  vehicles electrical and management systems? A. The vehicle owner. B. The police. C. The driver's insurance company. D. The transceiver manufacturer.|A
After fitting a transceiver in a vehicle, testing of the installation A. should be done with the vehicle stationary and all vehicles electrical systems running. B. should be done with the vehicle moving on the road and with all vehicle electrical systems running. C. is not required. D. is only required if specified by the vehicles insurers.|A
Which of the following is most likely to cause problems to an amateur radio receiver in a vehicle? A. Ignition Systems. B. Headlights control. C. Brake Lights. D. Automatic gearbox.|A
Your neighbour comes to your door and complains that the interference he is getting on his TV is being caused by your radio transmissions. You should A. offer to carry out test transmissions with his co-operation to verify his allegation. B. explain that it cannot be your radio transmissions as your equipment is 'CE' approved C. advice him to contact Ofcom for advice D. request that he comes to you with proof of his allegation.|A
A good reason for keeping a log of all transmission is because A. It will make it easier to check allegations of interference. B. it is required by Ofcom. C. it is a requirement of the amateur radio licence. D. it will help support an application for planning permission for an antenna.|A
Before transmitting you should first listen on a frequency and then ask if the frequency is clear because A. the frequency may be in use but one of the stations may be in a location where you can't receive their signal. B. it is a requirement of the amateur radio licence. C. this lets other amateur radio operators know that you are about to commence a QSO. D. it is considered to be polite to commence all new QSO's in this way.|A
When calling  CQ, this is M7ABC calling CQ on 20 meters  you should A. repeat the sequence several times in quick succession over a period of 20 - 30 seconds B. call the sequence once and then listen for several seconds in between each C. repeat the sequence several times in quick succession D. repeat the sequence several times in quick succession
